Welcome to Thriller Recapped, Today, I
will show you an American Psychological
Thriller film called “One Hour Photo”,
Spoilers Ahead, watch out and take care.
The movie starts with Seymour Parrish, he is
a photo technician at a local studio called,
One Hour Photo, he is in police custody, Detective
James Van, reads him his rights, and then he tells
him that police checked the camera roll, and they
found disturbing pictures in it. The Detective
asks further, that is it about, William Yorkin,
that provoked you to do this horrendous act.
In flashback, we see a birthday
party celebration, Seymour quotes,
no one wants to take a photograph
of something they want to forget.
A couple is seen, Nina Yorkin, and her husband,
William Yorkin, who is busy working on a project,
and their son, Jake Yorkin, seem to be a happy
family. Seymour is working on photographs at,
One Hour Photo Studio. While Nina is checking
out the photo rolls she just purchased,
he goes and gives her home address to the
cashier, even before she says it, it seems
like as if he memorized it. She bought a digital
camera as well, and he cracks a joke about it,
that he will be out of the job if everyone started
using a digital camera. She has one picture roll
left in her camera and he does not want to throw
it, so he takes his picture with the camera.
The store closes in 40 minutes, but he says she
is their best customer so he will develop films
for her before closing. Inside the lab, his
colleague, Yoshi, is working on some stuff.
Seymour starts developing films as he quotes
in the background, he lives only for his work,
and he considers that his work is a vital service.
He further quotes, people think that anyone can do
his job with 1 or 2 days of training, but his
job require skills that are far beyond the eye.
I process these photos as if they were my own.
Nina arrives there, and he hands her the pictures,
he also gives her discount, along with a mini
camera for free as a gift for Birthday Boy.
He notices a book in her
Shopping Bag, before she leaves.
Later that night, his shift ends, and he goes
outside, there he finds out that windshield
of his car is cracked. At Nina’s home, the
family is enjoying their evening by looking
at the pictures of Birthday Party, William comes
across the picture Seymour took in the store.
In a restaurant, Seymour is looking at the same
set of pictures, and he is appreciating the
moments, it turns out, he made a set of copy for
himself as well when developing the films earlier.
The waitress asks him, whose pictures he is
looking at, and he claims they are his family
pictures, she looks at the pictures and she says,
you got a beautiful family, and then she leaves.
Then he drives back to his home, Jake is sad
because he realized Seymour is all alone,
he does not have any friends, and everyone
bullies him at the store about it, she assures him
he probably has a lot of friends and a girlfriend
as well, since he is a nice guy, they should send
him good thoughts and manifest that next
time when they see him, he won’t look sad.
Later, Seymour gives his hamster some water, we
can see the family pictures of Yorkin family,
in the background. William is arguing about
the expenses of his wife, that she bought a
new Mercedes, and she needs to stop living the
life as if they live in a fairy tale, then she
claims that it’s not about money, and William is
bad husband, and a bad father, then she leaves.
Later that night, Seymour is alone in his
room, and he is watching, The Simpsons,
then we see a crazy wall, full
of pictures sticked to it,
it turns out, it has all the pictures, showing
the moments that the family ever shared.
The next day, Seymour gets back to work, he
quotes, Monday is the busiest day in their store,
people tend to take more pictures on
weekend, he further mentions a lady,
she only takes pictures of her cats, and he never
saw one human being in her pictures. Then he says
when a new baby is born, the parents go crazy and
they take tons of pictures, which is good for the
store. Then a Cornstar comes up, he always
takes pictures of women, in an artistic way.
Later, man named, Larry, a technician is there
to fix some issues in the printing machine, and
he makes fun of Seymour, because he called him for
a very small error in the color developing system,
showing us how Seymour is careful and
perfect in his job. It’s his lunch break,
and he finished his meal, and he is looking
at the Christmas picture of Yorkin family.
He visions himself there in the celebration.
The manager named, Bill Owens, interrupts him,
he advices him not to yell in front of customers
at anyone, even if the guy was at fault,
since it creates an uncomfortable environment. He
then suggests him to take some time off from work,
and enjoy his life, since Seymour never
went to any vacations, and he leaves.
Later that day, William comes to the store,
and Seymour recognizes him, and he introduces
himself to him. William is in rush, and he
needs some help with computer accessories.
So, Seymour makes an announcement for
assistance. Manager looks at him from the top,
Seymour tells him he has a beautiful house and
a wonderful family, and he is a very lucky man,
William is shocked at first but then he
takes it as a compliment and they both leave,
only to come across Jake, Jake shows him a Star
Wars toy, and he tells him how much he likes the
toy, and he leaves. Later that day, Seymour is
reading the same book Nina got few days ago,
when she went there for photos. Seymour
then walks in a market as he quotes,
people don’t realize these snapshots
are their only chance to stop time,
for a blink of an eye, as a picture. And these
pictures are the only proof of their existence,
and their memory to stay forever. He buys an
old picture of a woman. He quotes further that,
people don’t take pictures of small details in
their life, and they miss out on so many things.
He then manages to break inside the family home,
and he looks at his picture on their fridge,
he is full of joy. Then he takes a poo in their
toilet. He then watches a game in their living
room and enjoys it. Nina and the family get
back to home, he is caught, and he is scared,
but the family behaves as if he is part of
their family, and Jakes goes to him saying Uncle
Seymour. He then drives off from there, to realize
it was his vision of a family he never got.
The next day, a woman named, Maya,
arrives to the store, he likes her name,
and she says she won’t be able to collect
the pictures till tomorrow and she leaves.
Jake is having his soccer practice; the
coach is not happy with his performance.
However, Seymour waves in the background and he
cheers him. Jake goes to him, and they talk a bit,
Seymour cheers him further about his shot. Then he
walks him to the home, and shares his life story
with him, how he used to be fat, and nobody
spoke to him. He then learns that Jake’s dad
never showed up at his soccer practice. He then
gives him the Star Wars toy Jake liked earlier.
Jake denies it, since, his parents
won’t let him have it, and he leaves.
Later that day, Seymour notices Nina in the food
court, so he goes to her, and he sits next to her.
Then they talk a bit, and she invites him to sit
with her, Seymour compliments about her son Jake,
and he tells her how he feels like as if he is
the uncle of Jake. She is busy and she prepares
to leave, so he opens the book, and he pretends
to read it. Nina sits back, and she is shocked
to see him having an interest in the same book.
He reads one quote from the book, The things we
fear the most, have already happened to us. She
is impressed by his deep-thinking personality,
they talk a bit, and she learns that he is
single, and he does not have any family,
only a picture of his mother. He then shows her
the picture he bought from the market. There is a
charming smile on her face, and she leaves. The
next day, Seymour is working in the warehouse,
and the manager calls him for a talk.
Owens is suspicious about the excessive
use of printing material more than required,
and after a brief investigation with Larry,
he found out that Seymour has used hundreds of
extra developing films, so he decides to fire him
on the basis of fraud. Further saying they’re not
running a charity here, that Seymour gave away a
free camera on a birthday. The manager orders him
to pack his stuff, and this is his last week, and
he also threatens him not to ruin any prints while
working in his last days, Seymour rages up and he
claims that in his work history of 11 years, he
never ruined even one picture of any customer.
Few hours later, he comes across
a blank picture on the floor.
Nina interrupts him and she is there to process
the films, of Jake’s Birthday camera, they notice
his sad demeanour, and he asks her for her home
address, it seems he is in shock to the point,
he forgot the address of his favourite family.
Nina feels he is not alright, and she leaves.
Inside the lab, Seymour is being harsh
on the camera, and he slams it open,
while he is looking at the pictures,
he is happy with the pictures,
but he breaks down soon, knowing this will
be the last time he developed their pictures.
He then gets back to home, and he starts
examining the pictures on the wall.
He then gets back to the store early in
the morning, and he opens the file of Maya,
as he goes through it, he finds out that maya
took some intimate pictures with William,
the husband of Nina, and he realizes that he
is cheating on her, he is in disbelief and his
heart breaks, realizing his conception of Yorkin’s
family as a perfect family shattered into pieces.
Later, he deliberately places the
pictures of William and his mistress Maya,
into the packet of Nina, and he leaves early
from work, saying goodbye to his friend Yoshi,
and revealing it to him, that he is fired,
Yoshi thanks him for teaching him the stuff,
and Seymour tells him to run the place with
hard work. As Seymour walks from there he seems
to be thinking about something, he then takes a
knife out of the case, and he leaves from there.
He then goes undercover, and he
starts taking pictures of Nina,
paparazzi style, he follows Nina’s car and
sooner, Nina recklessly pulls over on the
side of the road, it turns out Nina just saw the
pictures of William and Maya, she’s in disbelief
and pain. He then spies on them that night, he is
waiting for them to fight, but nothing happens,
so he rages up aggressively and he leaves. He gets
back to home; he looks at the wall of pictures
that he used to cherish and mesmerize. He then
gets a dream, he is standing alone in the store,
and shockingly his eyes start bleeding crazily.
He wakes up and he takes a shower. The next day,
he goes out, in the background he quotes that,
the word snapshot originated from the people
who used to take pictures of birds,
and it was originally a hunting term.
He then gets back to the mall,
The manager asks him to leave,
but Seymour creates a scene that there is no law,
that can deny him from shopping at that mall,
then the manager gives a gesture to the security
guard. Later, he is spying on William and Maya.
In the studio, Yoshi goes to the manager,
and he shows him the envelope of Seymour,
it turns out he also spied on his young
daughter and sent her pictures as a threat.
The manager then calls Detective James, and they
talk about the safety of his wife and child.
The detective assures him that they will
take this as an indirect threat to the child,
and there are already 2 officers sent to
proctor him, also they already issued a
search warrant for Seymour’s apartment. Then
a group of officers go to his apartment,
they come across the wall of pictures, and they
notice that face of William is scratched off,
from every single picture on the wall. Seymour
goes to a hotel, he pretends to be a family member
and he asks to talk to Maya on the phone, when the
call is transferred to her, he pretends to be room
service and asks for her room number and takes an
order for some drinks, he then calls back to front
desk, and pretends to be William and informs them
that they don’t need any room service for the day.
Meanwhile, Detective James go to Nina’s
home, and they want to speak with William,
but she says William went for an urgent
meeting. Seymour goes to front desk,
and he books a room on the 5th floor, where
William is staying. Another detective suggests
Nina should call William’s office. Seymour
walks to the room 511, where William is staying,
and he covers the spyhole of the door. Then
he knocks, and pretends to be room service,
and he pushes the door and gets in, they both
were about to have a spicy hormone sandwich,
he is armed with a knife. He forces the lovers
to get back in the bed, and he orders them to
take the robe off. Nina is at home trying to call
William. He then forces them to pose for pictures,
and he forces Maya to pretend as if she’s eating
the sausage, while he takes the pictures. He then
gets back to his hotel room; he is laying
in the bed while thinking about something.
Both the detectives arrive to the hotel, and they
inquire about Seymour, then they both go to his
room, and they knock. They get inside but they
find it empty, with the knife in the sink, and
camera near the bed. Seymour escapes from there
through the kitchen to an emergency exit. The exit
door trips an alarm, he runs from there in sports
mode, some officers catch up with him, right
before he leaves the building. Meanwhile, the
other detective goes to William and Maya, and he
finds them without any physical harm. Police makes
an arrest, and he says, I just took pictures.
The officers bring William back to the house,
Jake hugs him. Nina seems little impressed,
and she looks at him silently. Back to
the present, Seymour asks the detective,
if he has family, the detective says, it’s none of
your business, but Seymour observes from the way
he handled him and the ring on detective’s finger
that he is a good man, and a good husband, maybe a
good father as well, full of fortune, not someone
who cheats on his wife and betray their trust,
and that he would never take sick, and degrading
pictures of your children doing these things.
Suggesting that Seymour’s own father exploited
him for child corn. The detective says, I think
I understand you now sir, and he leaves, Seymour
requests that he wants to see the pictures,
and it turns out Seymour took pictures of
furniture instead of William and Maya posing.
Then the film ends with a family picture
of Yorkin’s family and Seymour in it
smiling. Rest in Peace "Robin
Williams", you’ll always be remembered.